# schivmeister.github.io

Hello, world! I am Rashif, [0] and it seems you have found my bare-bones
"website".  I am sorry for the utterly plain design, but it is still a
work-in-progress due to something called "busy schedule" and "real life".
This page exists thanks to the ease of Git and Github.

I will try to be quick so you can move along, although I tend to be very
_wordy_, owing to my habits as a has-been wordsmith and "grammar Nazi". If it
matters, I have been personality-typed consistently as an "ENTJ", [1] but I
rarely ventured out into the unknown world of leading people.

What I am these days is a Computer Science practitioner, in a sub-discipline of
_artificial intelligence_ called "knowledge representation and reasoning", or
simply _KRR_. On the Internet, some applied form of what I do is also known as
the Semantic Web or Web 3.0. [2] I work at a startup wearing multiple hats, so
a clear definition of role is difficult. Perhaps "tech lead"? :)

Aside from _ontology engineering_ my primary function is to figure out patterns
in texts, structure them into a _machine-readable_ form, and determine
practically everything else needed to build a modern software- or web-based
intelligent agent. So, mostly, _knowledge engineering_.

It all started thanks to my Computer Science MSc at the University of Leicester
(UK) [3] and a stint with a European stealth FinTech/RegTech [4] startup, which
supported my thesis and grew into an awesome full-time engagement and
friendship with the founder. [5] Fun fact: we are a truly remote, _distributed_
team.

Yes, that means I "work from home" or "work online", but it is not entirely
correct. A lot of my work is offline, on pencil and paper, not unlike the
situation of many other computer scientists or software engineers. The Internet
and the Web helps us collaborate and communicate.

This is "telecommuting" of the 21<sup>st</sup> century, and nothing new. In my
free time I moonlight as a computing mentor on Codementor, [6] where the
mentoring or tutoring happens in real-time live screensharing, voice call or
video sessions along with a code window.

I would not be complete without mentioning my long-time non-profit position as
developer of a Linux distribution, Arch Linux, [7] where I (try to) maintain
niche packages such as for (semi-)professional audio. [8] This is what you
would know as "open source contribution", which also happens completely online.

It is very sad that a modern website of a computing professional will be so
text-heavy. I really apologize for this and have tried very hard to stop myself
from writing anymore gibberish.

Abrupt end.

[0] Or schiv, schivmeister and Ray (but this now conflicts with the name of my younger brother).

[1] http://www.humanmetrics.com/cgi-win/jtypes2.asp

[2] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OM6XIICm_qo

[3] https://le.ac.uk/

[4] Short forms for _financial technology_ and _regulatory technology_.

[5] https://nl.linkedin.com/in/markmuyres

[6] https://www.codementor.io/rashif

[7] http://archlinux.org/

[8] I am also a has-been musician and post-production audio engineer.
